Jim L. Carlisle/NBK/ULI 
08/21/2009 03:36 PM	To
	John Carlin/DIC/ULI@ULI
	cc
	
	bcc
	Denise Echols/NBK/ULI@ULI
	Subject
	Audit 2009-182 Field Operations Internal Technical Audits
	
	

John:

Thanks for getting back to me so soon. I am  glad that we were able to 
discuss those items included in the SOP for this process that IQA believes 
we may have an opportunity to provide more clarity to the process as we 
move forward, so that IQA , Accreditors and any other stakeholders may 
also  have a better understanding of the process.

As I mentioned in our phone conversation, I do not  think these items 
warrant a CAR, in most cases, just clarification if you and I can come to 
an understanding, but I do think they need attention. I have only noted my 
questions and I did not note your specific responses, except I will note 
that we agreed in principal in all cases that the concern was valid and 
may in some cases require clarification in the SOP being revised at the 
very least..

With that said, here are those items in question that we discussed. I want 
to be sure we are together on them. Please correct any error or omission:

Document 00-F0-S0026

1)    Under section 5.0 Applicable Documents, 00-QA-S0010 should be 
deleted; "S0010" is being "obsoleted" in DCS.

             Scheduling
2)    9.1.2.3 "For UL North American Mark Surveillance Program audits, 
selects at least 70% of the Inspection Centers (ICs) for witness audits 
randomly with consideration given to sites audited during the most 
previous round of audits."  We in IQA think that you  should consider the 
need to clarify this further. Two auditors misunderstood this to mean 70% 
of all IC's will be audited. We believe that Accreditors may make the same 
mistake.

3)    9.1.2.5  "A lead auditor may be nominated to manage a team when the 
audit requires more than one internal auditor. Develops the detailed audit 
scope." We were only able to locate a single scope for all audits 
conducted in 2007, and 2008. Where can I find a copy of the " detailed 
audit scope"?

4)    9.1.4 "Internal/Lead Auditor Performance
Monitors local auditor performance, which includes attainment of audits 
scheduled and the clarity and accuracy of reporting."
How is this done, and where would I see evidence? ( meeting minutes, CAF, 
etc.
           Final Audit Report Preparation and Review
5)    9.1.5.3 "Completes final Audit Report via the IQA Web report 
generator or uploads reports into the IQA web tool within 15 working days 
of                    receiving all audit reports."  What does this mean? 
Is this 2 different reports? If so, where is the final" report stored? May 
I have a copy for        2007, and 2008? 
6)      Verification of Closed CARs
        9.1.6.1 Provides information to Corporate Quality so that the CAR 
database can be updated with the status: effectively implemented as    
evidenced by (objective evidence) or not effectively implemented as 
evidenced by (objective evidence)."  What is this info? We agreed that 
this     is not relevant as FUS verifies their own CARs. 
7)     Audit Preparation and Scheduling
       9.2.1.4   Produces an audit agenda to include but not limited to: 
audit duration, opening meeting start time and location, areas to be 
covered   during the audit, arrangements for the closing meeting, and 
provides the agenda to all parties concerned (audit manager, IC manager, 
regional  manager) in advance of the audit so that there is adequate time 
for logistical arrangements and schedule adjustments." Where can i get a 
few  copies of those agendas? Where are these records addressed? Not on 
IQA website?
8)     Appendix A
       Internal Auditor Requirements
         "Auditors may be required to successfully complete at least one 
observation audit, obtaining a favorable recommendation from the 
observing        lead auditor or Regional Quality Manager." Under what 
circumstances would an auditor be required to complete this observation 
audit?
9)    Lead Auditor Requirements
      "Lead Auditors shall complete approved auditor training." What 
exactly is that training? We agreed it is not defined.
Please let me know if I missed any item. I will await those copies of the 
agendas and the Final audit reports for"07, and '08. Thanks again John for 
all of your help.
Best regards,
Jim Carlisle
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.
Corporate Quality Engineer
Northbrook Office
770.987.8233
770.331.8196-cell
Jim.L.Carlisle@ul.com